---
title: "Elon Musk’s Grokipedia Declares War on Wikipedia’s Dominance in the Knowledge World"
date: 2025-10-28T09:19:37.241Z
image: "https://i.ibb.co/vCVprfn9/kmc-20251028-144055.webp"
image_description: "Image created by TMP Staff showing the rivalry between Elon Musk and Jimmy Wales."
tags: [technology]
author: "TMP Staff"
layout: post
---

Elon‍‌‍‍‌‍‌‍‍‌ Musk is at it again. With his company, xAI, he is seemingly out to rescue the internet from its worst villains - fake news and biased reporting. The Los Angeles Times informs about a newly launched AI-based knowledge base, Grokipedia, by xAI, an attempt by Musk to take on what he perceives as “propaganda and bias” in Wikipedia.

This new web platform was put on hold for a while because the traffic was so high that it could not handle it. Although, Grokipedia in a very short time looks like it already has over 800,000 articles generated by the AI system on various topics - ranging from international politics, and natural sciences to tech, and pop culture. To put it in perspective, Wikipedia, which has been existing for over 20 years, has nearly 8 million articles written by human editors.

Users Manning up an AI platform praised the site's design and the minimalist style of Grokipedia, which comes with a dark mode option that focuses on a simple and efficient search bar. The articles also have citations and links to the related topics, preserving the organized structure of the standard printed encyclopedias, but these are A.I. generated entirely.

Besides, other things, there are pages created for Elon Musk, OpenAI, Donald Trump, and Zohran Mamdani. The entry about Musk, as quoted, represents him as “a mixture of revolutionary visionary and irreverent agitator.”

But the response to the project has not been overwhelmingly positive. Wikipedia co-founder Jimmy Wales sharply criticized the idea by pointing that the precision and the confraternity driven verification process characterizing Wikipedia can in no way be imitated by any algorithm. “A.I. cannot replace the effort of humans,” said Wales, emphasizing that the real power of Wikipedia is in the contributors who “get deeply involved and do the work.”

The launch of Grokipedia is a signal of Musk's grander ambition to not only challenge the media but also the way collective knowledge is curated in the digital age by questioning the ecosystems of online information. Grokipedia’s long-term reliability is a question mark yet to be answered, but its unveiling is a sign of Musk’s bigger plan to not only contend with the media but also differently engineering the way collective knowledge is curated in the digital age by challenging the online information ecosystems.

At this point, the world is eagerly waiting to see if Musk's latest invention manages to change the way knowledge is created, accessed, and trusted in a rather unconventional ‍‌‍‍‌‍‌‍‍‌manner.

